eddard
the summons came in the hour before the dawn, when the world was still and grey.
alyn shook him roughly from his dreams and ned stumbled into the predawn chill, groggy from sleep, to find his horse saddled and the
king already mounted. robert wore thick brown gloves and a heavy fur cloak with a hood that covered his ears, and looked for all the world
like a bear sitting a horse. ¡°up, stark!¡± he roared. ¡°up, up! we have matters of state to discuss.¡±
¡°by all means,¡± ned said. ¡°come inside, your grace.¡± alyn lifted the flap of the tent.
¡°no, no, no,¡±robert said. his breath steamed with every word. ¡°the camp is full of ears. besides, i want to ride out and taste this country
of yours.¡± ser boros and ser meryn waited behind him with a dozen guardsmen, ned saw. there was nothing to do but rub the sleep from his
eyes, dress, and mount up.
robert set the pace, driving his huge black destrier hard as ned galloped along beside him, trying to keep up. he called out a question as
they rode, but the wind blew his words away, and the king did not hear him. after that ned rode in silence. they soon left the kingsroad and
took off across rolling plains dark with mist. by then the guard had fallen back a small distance, safely out of earshot, but still robert would
not slow.
dawn broke as they crested a low ridge, and finally the king pulled up. by then they were miles south of the main party. robert was flushed
and exhilarated as ned reined up beside him. ¡°gods,¡± he swore, laughing, ¡°it feels good to get out and ride the way a man was meant to ride!
i swear, ned, this creeping along is enough to drive a man mad.¡± he had never been a patient man, robert baratheon. ¡°that damnable
wheelhouse, the way it creaks and groans, climbing every bump in the road as if it were a mountain ¡­ i promise you, if that wretched thing
breaks another axle, i¡¯m going to burn it, and cersei can walk!¡±
ned laughed. ¡°i will gladly light the torch for you.¡±
¡°good man!¡± the king clapped him on the shoulder. ¡°i¡¯ve half a mind to leave them all behind and just keep going.¡±
a smile touched ned¡¯s lips. ¡°i do believe you mean it.¡±
¡°i do, i do,¡± the king said. ¡°what do you say, ned? just you and me, two vagabond knights on the kingsroad, our swords at our sides and
the gods know what in front of us, and maybe a farmer¡¯s daughter or a tavern wench to warm our beds tonight.¡±
¡°would that we could,¡± ned said, ¡°but we have duties now, my liege ¡­ to the realm, to our children, i to my lady wife and you to your
queen. we are not the boys we were.¡±
¡°you were never the boy you were,¡± robert grumbled. ¡°more¡¯s the pity. and yet there was that one time ¡­ what was her name, that
common girl of yours? becca? no, she was one of mine, gods love her, black hair and these sweet big eyes, you could drown in them. yours
was ¡­ aleena? no. you told me once. was it merryl? you know the one i mean, your bastard¡¯s mother?¡±
¡°her name was wylla,¡± ned replied with cool courtesy, ¡°and i would sooner not speak of her.¡±
¡°wylla. yes.¡± the king grinned. ¡°she must have been a rare wench if she could make lord eddard stark forget his honor, even for an hour.
you never told me what she looked like ¡­¡±
ned¡¯s mouth tightened in anger. ¡°nor will i. leave it be, robert, for the love you say you bear me. i dishonored myself and i dishonored
catelyn, in the sight of gods and men.¡±
¡°gods have mercy, you scarcely knew catelyn.¡±
¡°i had taken her to wife. she was carrying my child.¡±
¡°you are too hard on yourself, ned. you always were. damn it, no woman wants baelor the blessed in her bed.¡± he slapped a hand on his
knee. ¡°well, i¡¯ll not press you if you feel so strong about it, though i swear, at times you¡¯re so prickly you ought to take the hedgehog as your
sigil.¡±
the rising sun sent fingers of light through the pale white mists of dawn. a wide plain spread out beneath them, bare and brown, its
flatness here and there relieved by long, low hummocks. ned pointed them out to his king. ¡°the barrows of the first men.¡±
robert frowned. ¡°have we ridden onto a graveyard?¡±
¡°there are barrows everywhere in the north, your grace,¡± ned told him. ¡°this land is old.¡±
¡°and cold,¡± robert grumbled, pulling his cloak more tightly around himself. the guard had reined up well behind them, at the bottom of
the ridge. ¡°well, i did not bring you out here to talk of graves or bicker about your bastard. there was a rider in the night, from lord varys in
king¡¯s landing. here.¡± the king pulled a paper from his belt and handed it to ned.
varys the eunuch was the king¡¯s master of whisperers. he served robert now as he had once served aerys targaryen. ned unrolled the
paper with trepidation, thinking of lysa and her terrible accusation, but the message did not concern lady arryn. ¡°what is the source for this
information?¡±
¡°do you remember ser jorah mormont?¡±
¡°would that i might forget him,¡± ned said bluntly. the mormonts of bear island were an old house, proud and honorable, but their lands
were cold and distant and poor. ser jorah had tried to swell the family coffers by selling some poachers to a tyroshi slaver. as the mormonts
were bannermen to the starks, his crime had dishonored the north. ned had made the long journey west to bear island, only to find when he
arrived that jorah had taken ship beyond the reach of ice and the king¡¯s justice. five years had passed since then.
¡°ser jorah is now in pentos, anxious to earn a royal pardon that would allow him to return from exile,¡± robert explained. ¡°lord varys
makes good use of him.¡±
¡°so the slaver has become a spy,¡± ned said with distaste. he handed the letter back. ¡°i would rather he become a corpse.¡±
¡°varys tells me that spies are more useful than corpses,¡± robert said. ¡°jorah aside, what do you make of his report?¡±
¡°daenerys targaryen has wed some dothraki horselord. what of it? shall we send her a wedding gift?¡±
the king frowned. ¡°a knife, perhaps. a good sharp one, and a bold man to wield it.¡±
ned did not feign surprise; robert¡¯s hatred of the targaryens was a madness in him. he remembered the angry words they had exchanged
when tywin lannister had presented robert with the corpses of rhaegar¡¯s wife and children as a token of fealty. ned had named that murder;
robert called it war. when he had protested that the young prince and princess were no more than babes, his new-made king had replied, ¡°i
see no babes. only dragonspawn.¡± not even jon arryn had been able to calm that storm. eddard stark had ridden out that very day in a cold
rage, to fight the last battles of the war alone in the south. it had taken another death to reconcile them; lyanna¡¯s death, and the grief they
had shared over her passing.
this time, ned resolved to keep his temper. ¡°your grace, the girl is scarcely more than a child. you are no tywin lannister, to slaughter
innocents.¡± it was said that rhaegar¡¯s little girl had cried as they dragged her from beneath her bed to face the swords. the boy had been no
more than a babe in arms, yet lord tywin¡¯s soldiers had torn him from his mother¡¯s breast and dashed his head against a wall.
¡°and how long will this one remain an innocent?¡± robert¡¯s mouth grew hard. ¡°this child will soon enough spread her legs and start
breeding more dragonspawn to plague me.¡±
¡°nonetheless,¡± ned said, ¡°the murder of children ¡­ it would be vile ¡­ unspeakable ¡­¡±
¡°unspeakable?¡± the king roared. ¡°what aerys did to your brother brandon was unspeakable. the way your lord father died, that was
unspeakable. and rhaegar ¡­ how many times do you think he raped your sister? how many hundreds of times?¡± his voice had grown so
loud that his horse whinnied nervously beneath him. the king jerked the reins hard, quieting the animal, and pointed an angry finger at ned.
¡°i will kill every targaryen i can get my hands on, until they are as dead as their dragons, and then i will piss on their graves.¡±
ned knew better than to defy him when the wrath was on him. if the years had not quenched robert¡¯s thirst for revenge, no words of his
would help. ¡°you can¡¯t get your hands on this one, can you?¡± he said quietly.
the king¡¯s mouth twisted in a bitter grimace. ¡°no, gods be cursed. some pox-ridden pentoshi cheesemonger had her brother and her
walled up on his estate with pointy-hatted eunuchs all around them, and now he¡¯s handed them over to the dothraki. i should have had them
both killed years ago, when it was easy to get at them, but jon was as bad as you. more fool i, i listened to him.¡±
¡°jon arryn was a wise man and a good hand.¡±
robert snorted. the anger was leaving him as suddenly as it had come. ¡°this khal drogo is said to have a hundred thousand men in his
horde. what would jon say to that?¡±
¡°he would say that even a million dothraki are no threat to the realm, so long as they remain on the other side of the narrow sea,¡± ned
replied calmly. ¡°the barbarians have no ships. they hate and fear the open sea.¡±
the king shifted uncomfortably in his saddle. ¡°perhaps. there are ships to be had in the free cities, though. i tell you, ned, i do not like
this marriage. there are still those in the seven kingdoms who call me usurper. do you forget how many houses fought for targaryen in the
war? they bide their time for now, but give them half a chance, they will murder me in my bed, and my sons with me. if the beggar king
crosses with a dothraki horde at his back, the traitors will join him.¡±
¡°he will not cross,¡± ned promised. ¡°and if by some mischance he does, we will throw him back into the sea. once you choose a new
warden of the east¡ª¡±
the king groaned. ¡°for the last time, i will not name the arryn boy warden. i know the boy is your nephew, but with targaryens climbing
in bed with dothraki, i would be mad to rest one quarter of the realm on the shoulders of a sickly child.¡±
ned was ready for that. ¡°yet we still must have a warden of the east. if robert arryn will not do, name one of your brothers. stannis
proved himself at the siege of storm¡¯s end, surely.¡±
he let the name hang there for a moment. the king frowned and said nothing. he looked uncomfortable.
¡°that is,¡± ned finished quietly, watching, ¡°unless you have already promised the honor to another.¡±
for a moment robert had the grace to look startled. just as quickly, the look became annoyance. ¡°what if i have?¡±
¡°it¡¯s jaime lannister, is it not?¡±